When working with large amounts
of data, we often need to
simplify or summarise the data
set in order to gain insights
from it.
In SQL, this can be achieved by
using a combination of aggregate
functions and grouping.
CrateDB supports both of these
concepts, and we'll explore them
in this video using our Chicago
Taxi Rides table.
Let's dive in!
Here I've connected to my CrateDB
cluster with the Crash CLI.
The first thing to do is find
out how many records are in our
taxi rides table.
This query tells us that there
are 245,000 records.
These are all of the rides for
the month of April 2024.
We've actually already started
using aggregations here.
The COUNT function is a good
example of a simple aggregation.
It returns a single summary
value telling us how many rows
are in the table.
With this much information
available, the value of data
contained in a single row is
often less important than the
insights gained from looking at
the summary of some metric
applied to all or some of the
rows.
Let's dig in further and see how
CrateDB can help us understand
the data in this table.
Here is the schema for our taxi_rides
table.
The total cost column contains
data about the total Dollar cost
of each taxi ride made up from
the base fare, plus any tips,
tolls, and extras.
Using aggregate functions we can
work out what the average total
cost of a taxi ride was, and we
can see that the average amount
paid was around $25.73.
The average aggregation function
only considers values that are
not null, so we don't need to
add an extra clause to our SQL
statement to exclude these from
the calculation.
Using the max aggregation
function, we can find the
highest value for a given
column.
This query finds the ride that
went the furthest, and that's a
pretty long way.
What if we wanted to know the
trip ID of the furthest ride so
that we could dig into the
details some more?
Let's find out how.
The max_by aggregation function
returns the value of one column
from the row that contains the
maximum value of another.
This query retrieves the tripid
for that long ride.
Using this ID we can ask
questions such as which vehicle
drove that trip and what was the
total cost.
Here we see it cost $1579.50 and
that the trip was undertaken by
vehicle 5413.
As you might expect, we can also
use aggregations against a
subset of the records in a
table.
Here we're asking for the
average total cost of trips
between 10 and 20 miles long.
These trips cost, on average
$47.40.
Aggregate functions produce a
single result.
We often need to produce richer
summaries of the data.
For example, what if we wanted
to know the average total cost
per ride originating in each of
the city's community areas?
For this, we need to introduce
grouping using a GROUP BY
clause.
GROUP BY groups rows that have
the same values.
Aggregation functions can then
be applied to these groups to
produce a single resulting value
for each one.
Here is a query that tells us the
average cost per ride, split out
by community area.
I've chosen to return these in
descending order of average cost
and to limit my result set to
five entries.
Community area 76 seems to be
the best place for taxi drivers
to pick up passengers whose
trips have the highest average
total fare.
We could also return the
community name directly using a
single query like this, and
here's our combined result.
It's not surprising to find out
that these trips originate from
the O'Hare community area, which
is home to Chicago's largest
International Airport.
In this video, you learnt how
CrateDB helps you make sense of
large amounts of data using
aggregate functions and
grouping.
You'll have noticed the
impressive performance that
CrateDB offers when performing
these operations. Each query in
this video taking mere
milliseconds to complete.
This is in part due to the use
of columnar storage by default
rather than using a row based
format.
Adopting this approach, in which
relevant values are stored
together makes aggregations more
efficient.
I encourage you to experiment
with these concepts using your
own CrateDB cluster at Taxi
Rides table and by referring to
the relevant sections of the
CrateDB documentation online.